All right.
So in the last video, we looked at how to create a grid and how to deal with the grid template columns
property.
Now, there's also a grid template rows property.
And we're going to we're going to look at that.
We're also going to talk about the implicit grid or implicit rows.
So let's create a new file here called zero to underscore grid underscore rose dot HTML.
And I'm going to actually copy what we have in the grid columns file because there's going to be some,
some things that are similar.
So paste that in and we'll change the title here and let's get rid of everything in this grid class
except for display grid.
I want to keep the item styling, get rid of main.
We don't want that.
We don't want this main down here.
I just wanted to show you how easy it was to create a basic, main, main area and sidebar.
But we're going to keep this here and let's open this with live server.
All right.
So remember with Flexbox, we have a row and a column we can set flex direction to either row or column
with the grid.
We have we also have rows and columns.
So I'm going to go ahead and set grid dash template rows and let's set this to we'll do one far too
far, three far.
So I'm going to save this and let's see what we get here.
So as you can see there, they're vertical.
So it's not we're not adding columns here, so it's not going horizontally.
And the first one is one.
If our second is two, if our third is three, f, r, if I were to add another one here and go for
a far, the next one will be for f r, but notice the ones that are remaining where we don't add a specific
value.
Four They're just going to stay the same.
They're all going to look like this.
This is actually called the implicit grid or implicit rows because we didn't we didn't manually set
them.
In fact, I'm going to take this one off and there's actually another property we can use if we want
to set these to something different.
And that's grid auto rows.
So if we say grid dash, auto dash rows, we can set this to let's say we want the rest of them to be
3fr as well, just like the last one that we put here.
So we can say three F, R and save.
And now the rest of them are all 3fr.
All right.
Now, unlike Flexbox, the grid is multi dimensional.
So we can we can use grid template rows along with grid template columns.
So just to show you that, let's say grid dash template dash columns and let's say we want to do let's
do repeat.
We'll just have to.
So we'll say repeat two and let's do one f.
What did I spell wrong here?
Oops.
So we'll save that.
And now you can see that we have our columns, which is just two one fr so the columns are even, but
then we're also, we also have our rows, which are one far too far and three too far.
And this, this will still be in effect.
So if I were to add extras down here and save, you'll see that those will all be three fr all right.
And if I wanted three rows, there are three columns, I could do that as well.
So you can really create the layout that you want and you can span items across multiple rows and columns.
And I'm going to show you how to do that as well.
All right.
But that is grid template rows.
So that's it.
I'll see you in the next video.